# Alpha-Particle-Scattering-Simulation
What this project is about:

This program is a simulation program for alpha particle scattering. The program can generate particle scattering videos based on manually input parameters or random parameters, which contain information about the relative position and trajectory of the particles. We are committed to using this program to provide high school or university physics students with more intuitive and vivid particle scattering phenomena, and to use this program as a teaching tool to help school teachers explain the Rutherford scattering experiment.

What sets it apart from similar products:

We use the Python programming language for programming, which has strong universality and readability. Users can modify the source code of the program according to their needs. At the same time, our program has been integrated and packaged, so users can directly download the program and run it without the need to install any runtime environment in advance. We also consider the requirements of educational software, and we use simple principles and simplified 2D models as much as possible, so that the source code of the program is easy to read and can run smoothly on any computer.

How to use:

After running the program, an interactive panel will appear, with two buttons below, representing two plotting modes: "Run with the parameters in the input box" and "Run with random parameters". 

First is the "Run with the parameters in the input box" mode. The left side is the "kinetic energies" input box, and the right side is the "impact parameters" input box. Each input box on the same row corresponds to one alpha particle, and up to six alpha particles' parameters can be set at the same time. The bottom of the interactive panel is the relative mass of the target particle, and users can also modify this parameter, which defaults to 79 (gold atom). After entering the parameters, click the left button below "Run with the parameters in the input box". The program will draw the scattering trajectory of alpha particles according to the manually entered parameters, and output it in the form of a video. The video window will provide the actual running time in zs (zeptoseconds).

Second is "Run with random parameters". If the user wants to use this mode, they do not need to input any parameters in the input box. Instead, they can directly click the right button below the interactive panel "Run with random parameters". At this time, the program will randomly generate 10,000 alpha particles with aiming distances within the range of [-1000, 1000] fm (femtometers) and shoot them out with the same incident energy. To facilitate the display of a large number of particle scattering results, we will shoot particles with the same incident energy in batches. The output result of the program is also displayed in the form of a video to show the scattering trajectory of alpha particles, and a scattering angle statistical graph is generated on the right side of the video window, which contains the theoretical curve of the scattering angle distribution for teachers to explain the theoretical curve of the scattering angle distribution in the Rutherford scattering experiment to students.
